---
title: Hunigam - the frozen planet
date: 2024-03-16 12:14:41 +1100
categories: [Writing]
tags: [lore]
---

When humanity was doomed, they built ships.

Seeds. Dormant, but with potential. To be spread across the galaxy, hoping that their descendants will endure.

Five separate ships were allocated to each Program. Each carrying a thousand dormant souls, supplies, material, in case of incidents when encountering the unknown depths of deep space.

The Programs never stopped manufacturing until the last surviving planet was lost.

This is the history of the Program Quicksteel.

## Hibernation

Quicksteel was launched from Yellowstone, a gas giant in the Epsilon Eridani system. It was a mere twenty lights from the frontlines of the conflicts - a large distance but too close for comfort for the mining colonies in the system. At this time the enemy was not well understood yet. From the information they gathered from megascope technology, they were consumers of matter - stripping entire planets of their resources, then inducing extreme gravity within the core of the sun to trigger an early supernova. They were vastly, vastly underestimated.

The five ships of Quicksteel - Titus, Tufourt, Beter, Camelin, Haussman - were launched in tandem. They adopted an extreme isolationist policy - keeping electromagnetic signatures to a minimum, no communication with any entities, a low albedo surface, using solar sails to propel them instead of paramteric engines - in case they were seen by the enemy. Every now and then, select trained few would awaken to perform any diagnostics and repairs before being sent back into stasis.

The ships coordinate their sensors to scan the solar systems within a few hundred lights to pick a suitable candidate for a settlement. Habitable planets with the right conditions are extremely rare. This Program was not equipped with atmosphere pumps or terraforming engines. Thousands of years would come and go without a proper candidate for selection. Earth-like conditions: a breathable atmosphere, a comfortable size, gravity, climate, accessible water, farmland, oceans and continents, an iron-rich crust, moon, within the Goldilocks zone of a young, bright star would be extremely lucky to come by.

One incident aboard Titus, in between any scheduled regular wakes, a software glitch from a suspected cosmic bitflip led to the premature revival of sixteen people. The error rendered their stasis pod dysfunctional for some time before repairs could get underway. During this time they developed a close-knit friend group. Colonists were picked such that people had little, if any, connection to each other. These sixteen had never met before; they hailed from a number of mining colonies back in Eridani. As repairs were undertaken by the ship makers, a number of them also reflected on the nature of their mission, the distance from their home planets, the time that had elapsed, and the knowledge that their situation was hopelessly depressing. Some excerpts from their writings before resuming cryosleep:

> Can beauty be taken from a man? To be human is to seek beauty. Do not despair, do not end the hunt because thorns grow in your way. Ask yourself: what is the most beautiful thing you can imagine?

> forty below zero / a frozen hell / put your head under the pillow / inside the shell

> The promise of Eden awaits / Ecstasies / Why do I remember the scars / Dreams of old transgressions / And why do I sleep with fears?

> I pray so that my ancestors may
> 
> wash their eyes / roughen their skin / dry their ink / roll the odds / tie up their wounds / never want for metal / grant me purpose.

> Who cares for us now? There are none left. They're gone. Dead. All of them. They don't matter anymore.

A thousand millenia passed.

At this point 


The planet was named Hunigam. It was an old Rhyrrhic word for 'Palace', on account of the white snow and dark navy oceans matching the imperial colors of Cascadia.

## Survival

Ship Haussman landed along the terminator, near the planet-circling ocean. The first settlers (Haussmanites, later known as Hamanites) established a fishing fleet, and managed to produce enough to feed themselves. Equipment failure and extreme hypothermia would claim the lives of thirty-two while on early expeditions.

## Settlement



## Exploration

